# fingerprint-lock-system

The fingerprint lock system worked by having the user place their finger on the fingerprint sensor and if this fingerprint matched with a previously enrolled fingerprint, a sequence of events were triggered. First, the green LED was turned on to signify valid entry, a buzzer was sounded, and the stepper motor completed 3 revolutions counter-clockwise. The motor was placed at the top of a cardboard box and a string was tied to the motor with a piece of cardboard attached to the string. When the motor rotated, the cardboard was drawn upwards because the string was getting spun around the motor, getting smaller in length after every revolution. After the revolutions were completed, a button on the breadboard could be pressed in order to lower the cardboard door by configuring the stepper motor to complete three revolutions in the clockwise direction, unraveling the string at the motor. If the fingerprint from the user did not match a fingerprint on the sensor's database, the red LED was turned on and the buzzer was sounded. Whenever the program was running, it was indicated by a blue LED that was constantly flashing. This behavior was expected and was the process that occurred during the check-off demo. During the process of making this device, one shortcoming that we faced was the fingerprint sensor and stepper motor not being compatible with the STM Microcontroller used in the lab. In order to overcome this setback, an Arduino Uno Microcontroller was used to take care of the fingerprint sensor and motor code and was connected back to the STM Microcontroller with a pin. This project allowed me to truly understand the extent to which I can apply Assembly and logical implementations learned in class, to tangible devices that can make a difference in real-world applications. In the future, my lab partner and I hope to add forms of access validation that can be contactless so that individuals can unlock the lock system while still driving up to the door. 
